# Mineral_threat_to_biodiv
Global threats of extractive industries on vertebrate biodiversity 
This paper forms the first chapter of my PhD thesis. It uses Bird Life and IUCN Red List international species range maps to highlight global hotspots of species with mineral extraction threats. It includes analyse the relationship between mineral extraction threat and a number species' ecological trait from Etard et al. 2020, COMBINE mammal trait (Soria et al. 2021) and rfishbase (Boettiger et al. 2023). 

Abstract of the paper:
Mining is a key driver of land-use change and environmental degradation globally, with the variety of mineral extraction methods used impacting biodiversity across scales. We use IUCN Red List threat assessments of all vertebrates to quantify the current biodiversity threat from mineral extraction, map the global hotspots of threatened biodiversity, and investigate the links between species’ habitat use and life-history traits and threat from mineral extraction. Nearly 8% (4642) of vertebrates are assessed as threatened by mineral extraction, especially mining and quarrying, with fish at particularly high risk. The hotspots of mineral extraction-induced threat are pantropical, with a large proportion of total diversity threatened in northern South America, West Africa, plus the Arctic. Species using freshwater habitats are particularly at risk, while the effects of other ecological traits vary between taxa. As the industry expands, it is vital that mineral resources in vulnerable biodiversity regions are managed in accordance with sustainable development goals.

The code for this work is organised into the the creation of the two figures that require extensive data wrangling and analysis. 
